---
path: administration
date: 2021-10-26T12:35:38.975Z
title: Administration
sort: 5
nav: about
---
Caroline Bond is CTL’s kindergarten teacher. She has a B.S. in elementary education from the University of Maine at Farmington and has worked with students of all ages for almost thirty years: as a volunteer at Pine Hill Preschool in Jefferson, a teacher of third and fourth grades at Chelsea and Waldoboro elementary schools, a science teacher of fifth and sixth grade students at Kieve Science Camp for Girls, a seventh and eighth grade math and science teacher at CTL, and, for three years, a helping and kindergarten teacher at CTL. 

Jennifer Keegan has been with CTL since 2006, when her four children joined the school and she started as a helping teacher. This year, Jenn has stepped into a new role as the Grade 1-2 teacher. Jenn has always enjoyed teaching the reading and writing programs in grades K-4, along with basic cooking and math skills. She is a skilled chef and runs theme-based cooking camps for kids in the summer.

Jill Cotta, CTL’s teacher of grades 3 and 4 since 2002, is a 1997 graduate of Middlebury College. She earned a Master of Arts in Teaching from the University of Maine at Orono in 2000; prior to obtaining her Masters, she team-taught a combined third and fourth grade class for two years at Weybridge Elementary School in Vermont. She also taught third grade at the Great Salt Bay School in Damariscotta. Jill has conducted teacher workshops about writing and reading in the intermediate grades at seminars across the U.S.

Katie Rittershaus has been CTL’s teacher of middle-school (grades 5-8) mathematics since 2004; before that she was a familiar presence at the school as a long-term substitute, helping teacher, and advocate for children. A passionate mathematician, Katie also holds a B.A. from the University of Southern Maine in women’s studies and took several years of pre-med courses at Regis College and Colorado State University. Her students are stand-outs at Mathcounts competitions and in their high school mathematics courses.

Kaity Newell is CTL’s music teacher for grades K-4. She earned a B.A. in English Literature from the University of Wales, Swansea, where she also pursued informal studies in folk music of the British Isles, travelling to Ireland, Shetland, and Brittany. She moved to Maine in 1979 and has been CTL’s music teacher for 24 years. Kaity is cofounder of Maine Fiddle Camp, Maine Country Dance Fiddle Workshop, The Ladybugs folk music group with Sharon Pyne, and Seacoast Community Orchestra, and is on the faculty of New England Suzuki Institute. She founded the strings program at Great Salt Bay Community School in Damariscotta, and teaches there currently.

[](http://c-t-l.org/faculty/kaity/)Annie Nixon is the physical education teacher for grades K-8, and leads our Forest Field Science outdoor education program for K-2.  Her B.S. degree from Penn State University is in Recreation Park Management with a minor in art. She has led sailing, canoeing, hiking and cross-country skiing experiences for children and adults. Annie is a certified Waldorf Teacher and has been a class teacher at Ashwood Waldorf, Chewonki and a music teacher at the Juniper Hill School. She has a wide range of experience working with students in every grade from pre-K to eighth.  Annie sees physical education experiences as an important aspect in overall health and is committed to fostering student’s growing understanding of what lifelong physical health means. Annie currently holds a USCG 100 ton Masters Captain’s License.

Janelle Munson-McGee joined CTL in 2020 as a helping teacher. She values quality education and cultivating a growth mindset. Janelle was born and raised in Hawaii. In 2012, she earned her Bachelor of Arts in Studio Art and Japanese Studies from Willamette University in Salem, Oregon. Five years of coaching swimming at local, national, and international levels of competition for all ages taught Janelle about her love of teaching and working with children.