---
slug: /middle-school-book-blog/the-year-of-secret-assignments-by-jaclyn-moriarty
date: 2010-05-02T21:10:54Z
title: The Year of Secret Assignments, by Jaclyn Moriarty
blog: middle-school-book-blog
categories: ['currfict', 'epistolary-novel', 'yahumor']
comments: []
creator: Abbie
---

 I’ll admit that at first <em>The Year of Secret Assignments</em> by Jaclyn Moriarty appears similar to every other book out there for teenage girls:  a close-knit group of friends, a sarcastic narrative voice, and, of course, dream-boat boys who are nowhere near reality. But through her characters’ odd yet amusing quirks—such as hijacking teachers’ cars, molding chocolate into various means of transportation, and writing gruesome children’s books—Moriarty manages to give the novel originality, something lots of authors seem to lack nowadays.<br />The plot begins with a pen-pal exchange between two rival schools:  Brookfield High and Ashbury Academy.  The three friends—Emily, a future lawyer with a serious chocolate obsession, Lydia, a sarcastic daredevil, and Cassie, a shy singer—are paired up with three boys from Brookfield:  Charlie, a sweet guy with a knack for taking cars for joy rides, Sebastian, a charming troublemaker who has a sensitive artistic side, which is typical but still very cute, and Matthew, a mysterious and possibly crazy trumpeter.<br />After a rocky start, Emily helps Charlie charm the girl of his dreams, and it doesn’t take a genius to figure out what Moriarty is leading up to.  At the same, Seb and Lyd dare each other to complete hilarious and sometimes illegal pranks. Meanwhile, Cassie pours out her thoughts about her father’s untimely death, something she has never done before, to Matthew, who responds in violent and disturbing notes that made me wonder about his motives.<br />This is a modern-day epistolary novel, told through letters, journal entries, emails, transcripts, and spy reports.  I loved this.  It gave me a chance to hear all the characters’ voices, including those of supporting players.  This was definitely not a mistake, since they all had big personalities.  Moriarty brings to life a cast who is not only hilarious but also sweet, engaging, and genuinely smart.  Moriarty provides honest insights into friendship, family, and adolescence while making the reader laugh, something I loved.<br />Moriarty’s style of quirky and slightly random humor isn’t limited to <em>The Year of</em><span style="text-decoration: underline;"> </span><em>Secret Assignments</em>.  Her latest, <em>The Murder of Bindy Mackenzie</em>, which is a companion to <em>The Year of Secret Assignments</em>, and her <em>Feeling Sorry for Celia</em> have the same lighthearted comedy.  <em>The Murder of Bindy Mackenzie </em>is filled with far-fetched but endearing characters that you can’t help but wish you knew, many of whom also appear in <em>The Year of Secret Assignments</em>.<br />This book has something for everyone: humor, unique but adorable relationships, and lovable characters who are sure to be remembered.  It’s perfect if you’re looking for a realistic book about friendship or just a good laugh.  I reread it again and again and loved it more each time.  It’s the type of book every adolescent secretly wants to live inside of.<br />Abbie<br />
